MANUAL ADDENDUM for 4.1 




Version 4.1A 

NEW

. New fine controls for PC simulator keys:
SHIFT + (left/right) changes the Track bearing by +- 0.1 degree
SHIFT + (PgUp/PgDn) changes the altitude by +- 100m


. Numeric keyboard as alternate to scroll list:

System Config
 Waypoint Edit
 Truewind IAS
 Safety Altitude
 Terrain Height
 Safety Mc
 Efficiency
 Menu Timeout
 Waypoints
 All the Task Radius (Start Radius/Sector Radius/Finish Radius)
 Max Altitude 1, 2, 3
 Task Start time
 Gates Interval

Basic Settings
 QNH
 Altitude

Wind Settings
 Speed
 Direction


. Support any PC resolution by startup parameters, passed to command line.
Example:  -x=500 -y=300
An alternate method to obtain -480x272  is -x=480 -y=272
x and y must be in the range of 100 to 3000 pixels.


. New human readable tsk file format
All task option is saved with task ( rule, time gate, aat target .... )

. Added information about landable waypoint on Task Edit screen

. Draw thin green dash line from Current position to Active TurnPoint center

. New MultiTarget Task Center, for rotation of multitarget and as a button in standard menu
  Only for paragliders, and only when Optimized Route is enabled

. Support for PnaDump tool (also in 4.0b)

.  FLARM version in status, and managed flarm device disconnection.
   Specify baro altitude from flarm if available.

. Multimap 2 empowered: better printed values on screen as boxed overlays, and final glide MC overlay.

. New customkey Reset View . It will instantly bring screen to moving map , and reset all infopages to the first.

. AAT task : Use AAT optimized turn point for overlay data

. NMEA logger creating separated logs for each port, plus a common mixed log.

. Unselect sideview zoom after MM change in Flarm Radar (same as other multimaps).
  300m default zoom for sideview

.     Fix text keyboard not resetting content on startup. We show old content, before deleting it upon any key activity, except DEL.
    With DEL , we only cancel last character keeping the old content.

. Add airspace type in dialogs, colored accordingly , to be intuitive.





CHANGES

Default zoom level for multimap MM1 in paragliding mode changed to 20km.

NavFunctions: Use precise formula in FindLatitudeLongitude()

Target dialog for AAT sector fixed
Before the change a Target dialog for narrow AAT sector (like 90o - 180o) was
centered at the center of the circle used to draw the sector and zoomed
to view 2x its radius. Because of that sector was really hard to manage in
AAT tasks. Now the same sector is centered on the screen and stretched on full
screen.

Skip Alternate 1, Alternate 2 and Last Thermal in multitarget rotate if is not defined.




FIXES

Fix wrong lines drawing in task and topology at high zoom levels, due to overflow in distance calculations



Version 4.1B

New features:
-After a long click a “Multiselect dialog” opens with a list of the interesting objects in this area (Airspaces, Waypoints, Flarm objects, Taskpoints)
-Icons for waypoints, airfields, outlanding, airspaces, Flarmobjects and Taskpoints in the dialogs
-Gear warning (with two different modes for mountain and flat lands, setup in Config page 15.
-New draw mode “Task and FAI”, the selected mode will remain on next startup.
-New custom key “map orientation”
-FAI Sectors with 25/45% FAI rule for big triangles (500km/750km threshold can be set in Config page 14 “Task rules”)
-Show FAI Sectors for active Task point before takeoff, instead of FAI optimizer
-Active keyboard removes keys not leading to a valid waypoint and searches for substrings in the waypoint name.
-Don’t auto advance Task Start before freefly detection
-Disabled airspaces can automatically be re-enabled on next startup (Setup Page2 “Airspaces”)
-graphical Task editor. By selecting a Task turnpoint in Multiselect, PAN mode opens with moving the task turnpoint.


videos:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bIz9s6HYMJE
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Iyk-r6MDpCI
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r_VeQFbUSlg


Changes:
-New “white wing” symbol for glider sites
-Automatically remember the selected button bar for next startup
-Removed center custom key (was needed multiselect)
-Show disabled airspaces as grey outlined.
-Disable sky background in sideview if terrain is disabled.

Fixes:
-Improved FLARM-Task declaration for more than five waypoints and with checksum.
-Fixed Westerboer STF-switch problem.
 


